{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww14400\viewh15620\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 NRSP-8 Aquaculture 2017 Annual Report \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Objective 1: Advance the status of reference genomes for all species, including basic annotation of worldwide genetic variation, by broad sequencing among different lines and breeds of animals. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
Sequenced the YY genome of channel catfish using a YY sequencing template that avoid any X chromosome sequences in the assembly. The genome assembly was validated through linkage mapping of more than 250,000 SNP markers. \
\
Eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) genome assembly v. 3.0 completed; 99% of sequences are assembled into the known number of chromosomes (10). Gene annotation completed using the automated NCBI pipeline. \
\
The new version of the rainbow trout genome was annotated and released by the NIH-NCBI (GenBank assembly Accession GCA_002163495).  Approximately 88% of the new assembly sequences are aligned within chromosomes to generate contiguous chromosome sequences.\
\
A draft genome for Chinook salmon was assembled and submitted to NCBI which was released publicly on December 11, 2017 (accession #s: project: PRJNA402052; genome assembly: PIPH000000000; transcriptome assembly: GGDU00000000). The assembly was produced from a diploid wild male collected in the interior Columbia River (Johnson Creek).  We produced a 2.36 Gb genome assembly with 72.2% (1.70 Gb) of the de novo assembly anchored to 34 chromosomes, with contig N50 of 19.1Kb, scaffold N50 of 153.3Kb (prior to chromosome placement), and anchored chromosome N50 of 45.4Mb. \
\
Efforts are ongoing to complete assembly of the striped bass (Morone saxatilis) and white bass (M. chrysops) genomes using Dovetail Hi-C and Chicago sequencing strategies. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Objective 2: Develop strategies to identify and exploit genes and allelic variation that contribute to economically relevant phenotypes and traits, in part through improving functional annotation of the genomes of our species.\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Identified a candidate for sex determination gene in catfish through positional and functional evidence. Experimental knockout of the candidate gene converted genetic males (XY) to phenotypic females.\
\
Medium-density Affymetrix SNP array containing ~27K Crassostrea gigas SNPs and ~11K Ostrea edulis SNPs has been developed. \
\
Expressed exome capture sequencing (EecSeq) method developed using the eastern oyster. NCBI Accession # PRJNA423022.\
\
A 50K transcribed gene Affymetrix chip was built. The chip contains ~21K transcribed SNPs with allelic-imbalances associated with important aquaculture production traits including WBW, muscle yield, and resistance/susceptibility to bacterial cold-water disease. The chip identified major QTL explaining genetic variance of body-weight-gain and muscle yield.\
\
Columnaris disease (CD) is distributed around the world, and recently it has been identified as an emerging problem for the U.S. rainbow trout aquaculture industry. As a first step in developing selective breeding strategies for improving the resistance to CD, we scanned the genomes of two important domestic rainbow trout breeding populations for chromosome segments that contain genes that significantly affect resistance to CD.  The research is conducted by scientists from USDA-ARS in collaboration with Troutlodge, Inc.\
\
The striped bass genome sequence assembly was used to evaluate epigenetic markers of sperm quality (DNA methylation status) and gene pathways underlying male reproductive dysfunction. \
\
Domestic white bass when crossed with domestic striped bass were shown to produce sunshine hybrid striped bass with 18% better growth to market size than wild-captured white bass from Lake Erie crossed with domestic striped bass in two independent replicate studies through time. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Objective 3: Facilitate analysis, curation, storage, distribution and application of the enormous datasets now being generated by next-generation sequencing and related "omics" technologies with regard to animal species of agricultural interest.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Hands-on comparative genomics workshop held at the National Shellfisheries Association annual meeting
\b \
\

\b0 NRSP-8 supported and facilitated a workshop of the Functional Annotation of All Salmonid Genomes (FAASG) Consortium: an international initiative supporting future salmonid research, conservation and aquaculture.
\b \
\

\b0 A JBrowse integrated web portal of the draft striped bass genome resource is hosted online for use as an unrestricted public resource. Database URL: \
http://appliedecology.cals.ncsu.edu/striped-bass-genome-project/.   
\b \
\

\b0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 References\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Jin Y, Zhou T, Li N, Liu S, Xu X, Tan S, Shi H, Yang Y, Yuan Z, Wang W, Pan Y, Gao D, Dunham R, Liu ZJ. 2018. JAK and STAT members in channel catfish: Identification, phylogenetic analysis and expression profiling after bacterial infection. Developmental and Comparative Immunology, in press.\
\
Yuan Z, Huang W, Liu S, Xu P, Dunham R, Liu ZJ. 2018. Historical demography of common carp estimated from individuals collected from various parts of the world using the pairwise sequentially Markovian coalescent approach. Genetica, in press.\
\
Yang Y, Fu Q, Liu Y, Wang X, Dunham R, Liu S, Bao L, Zeng Q, Zhou T, Li N, Qin Z, Jiang C, Gao D, Liu ZJ. 2018. Comparative transcriptome analysis reveals conserved branching morphogenesis related genes involved in chamber formation of catfish swimbladder. Physiological Genomics, in press.\
\
Fu Q, Yang Y, Li C, Zeng Q, Zhou T, Li N, Liu Y, Liu S, Li D, Liu ZJ. 2017. The CC and CXC chemokine receptors in channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and their involvement in disease and hypoxia responses. Developmental and Comparative Immunology 77: 241-251.\
\
Fu Q, Yang Y, Li C, Zeng Q, Zhou T, Li N, Liu Y, Li Y, Wang X, Liu S, Li D, Liu ZJ. 2017. The chemokinome superfamily: II. The 64 CC chemokines in channel catfish and their involvement in disease and hypoxia responses. Developmental and Comparative Immunology 73: 97-108.\
\
Geng X, Liu S, Yuan Z, Jiang Y, Zhi D, and Liu ZJ. 2017. A genome wide association study reveals that genes with functions for bone development are associated with body conformation in catfish. Marine Biotechnology 19: 570-578.\
\
Wang X, Liu S, Dunham R, Liu ZJ. 2017. Effects of strain and body weight on low-oxygen tolerance of channel catfish. Aquaculture International 25: 1645-1652. DOI: 10.1007/s10499-017-0125-2\
\
The Aquaculture Genomics, Genetics and Breeding Workshop, Abdelrahman H, ElHady M, Alcivar-Warren A, Allen S, Al-Tobasei R, Bao L, Beck B, Blackburn H, Bosworth B, Buchanan J, Chappell J, Daniels W, Dong S, Dunham R, Durland E, Elaswad A, Gomez-Chiarri M, Gosh K, Guo X, Hackett P, Hanson T, Hedgecock D, Howard T, Holland L, Jackson M, Jin Y, Kahlil K, Kocher T, Leeds T, Li N, Lindsey L, Liu S, Liu ZJ*, Martin K, Novriadi R, Odin R, Palti Y, Peatman E, Proestou D, Qin G, Reading B, Rexroad C, Roberts S, Salem M, Severin A, Shi H, Shoemaker C, Stiles S, Tan S, Tang KFJ, Thongda W, Tiersch T, Tomasso J, Tri Prabowo W, Vallejo R, van der Steen H, Vo K, Waldbieser G, Wang H, Wang X, Xiang J, Yang Y, Yant R, Yuan Z, Zeng Q, and Zhou T. 2017. Aquaculture genomics, genetics and breeding in the United States: current status, challenges, and priorities for future research. BMC Genomics 18: 191. DOI 10.1186/s12864-017-3557-1\
\
Wang X, Liu S, Yang Y, Fu Q, Abebe A, Liu ZJ. 2017. Identification of NF-\uc0\u954 B related genes in channel catfish and their expression profiles in mucosal tissues after columnaris bacterial infection. Developmental and Comparative Immunology 70: 27-38.\
\
Li N, Zhou T, Geng X, Jin Y, Wang X, Liu S, Xu X, Gao D, Li Q, Liu ZJ. 2017. Identification of novel genes significantly affecting growth in catfish through GWAS analysis. Molecular Genetics and Genomics, in press. doi.org/10.1007/s00438-017-1406-1\
\
Yuan Z, Liu S, Bao L, Zhou T, Liu ZJ. 2017. Comparative genome analysis of 52 fish species suggests differential associations of repetitive elements with their living aquatic environments. BMC Genomics, in press.\
\
Zhong X, Wang X, Zhou T, Jin Y, Tan S, Jiang C, Geng X, Li N, Shi H, Zeng Q, Yang Y, Yuan Z, Bao L, Tian C, Liu S, Li Q, Liu ZJ. 2017. Genome-wide association study reveals multiple novel QTL associated with low-oxygen tolerance in hybrid catfish. Marine Biotechnology 19: 379-390. DOI: 10.1007/s10126-017-9757-5.\
\
Li Y, Geng X, Bao L, Elaswad A, Huggins KW, Dunham R, Liu ZJ. 2017. A deletion in the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 4 (Hps4) gene appears to be responsible for albinism in channel catfish. Molecular Genetics and Genomics, in press. DOI 10.1007/s00438-017-1302-8\
\
Nunes, Jos\'e9 de Ribamar da Silva, Liu S, P\'e9rtille F, Perazza C, Vera Maria Fonseca de Almeida Val, Hilsdorf AWS, Liu ZJ, & Coutinho LL. 2017. Large-scale SNP discovery and construction of a high-density genetic map of tambaqui (Colossoma macropomum) through genotyping-by-sequencing. Scientific Report 7: 46112.\
\
Zhou T, Liu S, Geng X, Jin Y, Jiang C, Bao L, Yao J, Zhang Y, Zhang J, Sun L, Wang X, Li N, Tan S, Liu ZJ. 2017. GWAS analysis of QTL for enteric septicemia of catfish and their involved genes suggest evolutionary conservation of a molecular mechanism of disease resistance. Molecular Genetics and Genomics 292: 231-242. DOI 10.1007/s00438-016-1269-x\
\
Gao S, and Liu ZJ. 2017. Taste receptors and gustatory associated G proteins in channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, part D, Genomics and Proteomics 21: 1-9. doi.org/10.1016/j.cbd.2016.10.002. \
\
Gao S, Liu S, Yao J, Li N, Yuan Z, Zhou T, Li Q, and Liu ZJ. 2017. Genomic organization and evolution of olfactory receptors and trace amine-associated receptors in channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta - General Subjects 1861 (2017): 644-651. Doi 10.1016/j.bbagen.2016.10.017.\
\
Zeng Q, Fu Q, Li Y, Waldbieser G, Bosworth B, Liu S, Yang Y, Bao L, Yuan Z, Li N, and Liu ZJ. 2017. Development of a 690K SNP array in catfish and its application for genetic mapping of 250,000 markers and validation of the reference genome sequence.  Scientific Report 7: 40347 DOI:10.1038/srep40347.\
\
Zhou T, Li N, Liu S, Jin Y, Fu Q, Gao S, Wang X, Liu ZJ. 2017. The NCK and ABI adaptor genes in catfish and their involvement in ESC disease responses. Developmental and Comparative Immunology 73: 119-123.\
\
Tian C, Tan S, Bao L, Zeng Q, Liu S, Yang Y, Zhong X, Liu ZJ. 2017. DExD/H-box RNA helicase genes are differentially expressed between males and females during the critical period of male sex differentiation in channel catfish. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology part D 22: 109-119.\
Fu Q, Zeng Q, Li Y, Yang Y, Li C, Zhou T, Li N, Liu S, Yao J, Jiang C, Li D, Liu ZJ. 2017. The chemokinome superfamily in channel catfish: I. CXC subfamily and their involvement in disease defense and hypoxia responses. Fish and Shellfish Immunology 60: 380-390.\
\
Puritz, J. B., & Lotterhos, K. E. (2017). Expressed Exome Capture Sequencing (EecSeq): a method for cost-effective exome sequencing for all organisms with or without genomic resources. bioRxiv, 223735.\
\
Qi, H., Song, K., Li, C., Wang, W., Li, B., Li, L., Zhang, G. (2017) Construction and evaluation of a high-density SNP array for the Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas). PLoS One, 12(3), e0174007. \
\
Bach\'e8re, E., Barranger, A., Bruno, R., Rouxel, J., Menard, D., Piquemal, D., & Akcha, F. (2017). Parental diuron-exposure alters offspring transcriptome and fitness in Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas. Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety, 142, 51-58.\
\
Gutierrez, A. P., Turner, F., Gharbi, K., Talbot, R., Lowe, N. R., Pe\'f1aloza, C., ... & Houston, R. D. (2017). Development of a medium density combined-species SNP Array for Pacific and European oysters (Crassostrea gigas and Ostrea edulis). G3: Genes, Genomes, Genetics, 7(7), 2209-2218.\
\
Gutierrez, A., Bean, T. P., Hooper, C., Stenton, C. A., Sanders, M. B., Paley, R. K., ... & Houston, R. D. (2017). A genome-wide association study for host resistance to Asteroid Herpesvirus in Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas). bioRxiv, 223032.\
\
Song, K., Li, L., & Zhang, G. (2017). The association between DNA methylation and exon expression in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas. PloS one, 12(9), e0185224.\
\
Gonzalez-Romero, R., Suarez-Ulloa, V., Rodriguez-Casariego, J., Garcia-Souto, D., Diaz, G., Smith, A., ... & Eirin-Lopez, J. M. (2017). Effects of Florida Red Tides on histone variant expression and DNA methylation in the Eastern oyster Crassostrea virginica. Aquatic Toxicology, 186, 196-204.\
\
Li, B., Song, K., Meng, J., Li, L., & Zhang, G. (2017). Integrated application of transcriptomics and metabolomics provides insights into glycogen content regulation in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas. BMC genomics, 18(1), 713.\
\
Gavery MR, Roberts SB. (2017) Epigenetic considerations in aquaculture PeerJ 5:e4147 doi: 10.7717/peerj.4147\
\
Samuel J. White, Brent Vadopalas, Katherine Silliman & Steven B. Roberts (2017) Genotoype-by-sequencing of three geographically distinct populations of Olympia oysters, Ostrea lurida Scientific Data 4, Article number: 170130 doi: 10.1038/sdata.2017.130\
\
Heare JE, White SJ, Vadopalas B, Roberts SB. (2018) Differential response to stress in Ostrea lurida as measured by gene expression PeerJ 6:e4261.\
\
Emma B. Timmins-Schiffman, Grace A Crandall, Brent Vadopalas, Michael E. Riffle, Brook L. Nunn and Steven Roberts (2017) Integrating discovery-driven proteomics and selected reaction monitoring to develop a non-invasive assay for geoduck reproductive maturation Journal of Proteome Research doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.7b00288\
\
Al-Tobasei, R., Ali, A., Leeds, T.D., Liu, S., Palti, Y., Kenney, B. & Salem, M. (2017). Identification of SNPs associated with muscle yield and quality traits using allelic-imbalance analyses of pooled RNA-Seq samples in rainbow trout. BMC Genomics, 18: 582\
\
Campbell, N.R., C. Kamphaus, K. Murdoch, and S.R. Narum.  2017. Patterns of genomic variation in Coho salmon following reintroduction to the interior Columbia River. Ecology and Evolution 7:10350-10360.\
\
Cleveland, B.M., Leeds, T.D., Rexroad III, C.E., Summerfelt, S., Good, C., Davidson, J., May, T., Wolters, W.R., Plemmons, B., Kenney, P. 2017. Genetic line by environment interaction on rainbow trout growth and processing traits. North American Journal of Aquaculture. 79:140-154.\
\
Koganti, P., Wang, J., Cleveland, B., Ma, H., Weber, G., and Yao, J. 2017. Estradiol regulates expression of miRNAs associated with myogenesis in rainbow trout. Molecular and Cellular Endocrinology, 443, 1-14.\
\
Koganti, P., Wang, J., Cleveland, B.M., and Yao, J. 2017. 17\uc0\u946 -Estradiol increases non-CpG methylation in exon 1 of the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) MyoD gene.  Marine Biotechnology 19(4):321-327.\
\
Leeds, T. D., R. L. Vallejo, G. M. Weber, D. Gonzalez-Pena, J. T. Silverstein. 2016. Response to five generations of selection for growth performance traits in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). Aquaculture 465:341-351.\
Liu, S., Palti, Y., Martin, K.E., Parsons, J.E., Rexroad, III, C.E. 2017. Assessment of genetic differentiation and genetic assignment of commercial rainbow trout strains using a SNP panel. Aquaculture. 468(1): 120-125.\
\
Ma, H., G. M. Weber, H. Wei, J. Yao. 2016. Identification of mitochondrial genome-encoded small RNAs related to egg deterioration caused by postovulatory aging in rainbow trout. Mar. Biotechnol. 18:584-597.\
\
Macqueen, D.J., Primmer, C.R., Houston, R.D., Nowak, B.F., Bernatchez, L., Bergseth, S., Davidson, W.S., Gallardo-Esc\'e1rate, C., Goldammer, T., Guiguen, Y., Iturra, P., Kijas, J.W., Koop, B.F., Lien, S., Maass, A., Martin, S.a.M., Mcginnity, P., Montecino, M., Naish, K.A., Nichols, K.M., \'d3lafsson, K., Omholt, S.W., Palti, Y., Plastow, G.S., Rexroad, C.E., Rise, M.L., Ritchie, R.J., Sandve, S.R., Schulte, P.M., Tello, A., Vidal, R., Vik, J.O., Wargelius, A. & Y\'e1\'f1ez, J.M. (2017). Functional Annotation of All Salmonid Genomes (FAASG): an international initiative supporting future salmonid research, conservation and aquaculture. BMC Genomics, 18: 484.\
\
Matala, A.P., B. Allen, S.R. Narum, and E. Harvey. 2017. Restricted gene flow between resident Oncorhynchus mykiss and an admixed population of anadromous steelhead. Ecology and Evolution 7:8349-8362.\
\
Narum, S.R., P. Gallardo, C. Correa, A. Matala, D. Hasselman, B.J.G. Sutherland, and L. Bernatchez. 2017. Genomic patterns of diversity and divergence of two introduced species in Patagonia, South America. Evolutionary Applications 10:402-416.\
\
Paneru, B.D., Al-Tobasei, R., Kenney, B., Leeds, T.D. & Salem, M. (2017). RNA-Seq reveals MicroRNA expression signature and genetic polymorphism associated with growth and muscle quality traits in rainbow trout. Scientific Reports, 7: 9078.\
\
Vallejo, R.L., Leeds, T.D., Gao, G., Parsons, J.E., Martin, K.E., Evenhuis, J., Fragomeni, B.O., Wiens, G.D., Palti, Y. 2017. Genomic selection models double the accuracy of predicted breeding values for bacterial cold water disease resistance compared to a traditional pedigree-based model in rainbow trout aquaculture. Genetics Selection Evolution. 49(17):1-33.\
\
Vallejo, R.L., Leeds, T.D., Gao, G., Parsons, J.E., Martin, K.E., Evenhuis, J.P., Fragomeni, B.O., Wiens, G.D. & Palti, Y. (2017). Genomic selection models double the accuracy of predicted breeding values for bacterial cold water disease resistance compared to a traditional pedigree-based model in rainbow trout aquaculture. Genetics Selection Evolution, 49: 17.\
\
Salger, S.A., Reading, B.J., and Noga, E.J. 2017. Tissue Localization of Piscidin Host-Defense Peptides during Striped Bass (Morone saxatilis) Development. Fish and Shellfish Immunology 61: 173-180.\
\
Fuller, S.A., Rawles, S.D., McEntire, M.E., Bader, T.J., Riche, M, Beck, B.H., and Webster, C.D. 2017. White bass (Morone chrysops) preferentially retain n\uc0\u8209 3 PUFA in ova when fed prepared diets with varying FA content. Lipids 52: 823-836.\
\
Fuller, S.A., Beck, B.H., Rawles, S.D., Green, B.W., Li, C., Peatman, E. Childress, C.J., Gaylord, T.G., Barrows, F.T., McEntire, M.E. 2017. Hybrid striped bass National Breeding Program:  Research towards genetic improvement of a non-model species. Bulletin of Japan Fisheries Research and Education Agency 45: 89-100.\
\
}